EpicLoot/README.md, before:

# Epic Loot - Config Patching System and Various Bug Fixes
Author: [RandyKnapp](https://discord.gg/randyknappmods)
Source: [Github](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/)
Patreon: [patreon.com/randyknapp](https://www.patreon.com/randyknapp)
Discord: [RandyKnapp's Mod Community](https://discord.gg/randyknappmods)
Patch notes: [Github Patchnotes](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/CHANGELOG.md)

This mod aims to add a loot drop experience to Valheim similar to Diablo or other RPGs. Monsters and chests can now drop Magic, Rare, Epic, or Legendary magic items. Each magic item has a number of magic effects on it, that give bonuses to the item or your character when that magic item is equipped.

The mod is currently in ***Early Access***! That means it's **not done**! Be patient as the author adds new features, fixes bugs, and finishes things up. If you want to help, please provide feedback on the [Nexus mod page](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/387) or on the [github](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/tree/main/EpicLoot) for the following:

  * **Bugs** *(check to make sure your bug is new and not already reported)*
  * **Balance Issues** *(drops too strong? Too weak? Ruin the crafting progression?)*
  * **Missing content** *(check the TODO list below to make sure the author isn't already planning to do it)*
  * **Suggestions** for new magic item effects
  * **Suggestions** for something else like UI or art improvements

***EpicLoot works in multiplayer and on dedicated servers!*** The server and all players should have the mod and its dependencies installed.

## Documentation

**Magic Effects:** [Magic Effects Wiki](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/wiki/Magic-Effects)
**Loot Drops:** [info.md](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/info.md)
**Patching System:** [Config Patching](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/wiki/Config-Patching)

## Credits
Epic Loot Team Members:
  * [Vapok](https://github.com/Vapok) - Joined in Dec 2022, made hundreds of changes and bugfixes since.

Contibutions from the following modders were invaluable and appreciated: 
  * [blaxxun (CLLC)](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/495) - bugfixes, config sync, various magic item effects
  * [M3TO](https://github.com/M3TO) - bugfixes
  * [jsza](https://github.com/jsza) - bugfixes
  * [maxrd2](https://github.com/maxrd2) - bugfixes
  * [nanonull](https://github.com/nanonull) - bugfixes, lifesteal
  * [xPucTu4](https://github.com/xPucTu4) - bugfixes
  * LitanyOfFire - legendary definitions
  * [Digitalroot](https://github.com/Digitalroot) - Help with testing

## Installation
Copy the contents of "files" to a new folder called "EpicLoot" in your BepInEx/plugins directory (on both clients and dedicated servers).

## Cheats

Enter these into the console (F5) after using `devcommands`:

  * `magicitem <rarity> <itemtype> <amount>`: Roll a random magic item using the specified values. (alias: `mi`)
    * `<rarity>`: (String) One of: magic, rare, epic, legendary, random. If left empty, uses random.
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item. May be "random". If left empty, uses random.
	* `<amount>`: (Int) The number of magic items to roll. If the other values are set to random, rerolls that random item each time. If left empty, uses 1.
	* `<effectcount>`: (Int) The number of magic effects to roll on each item. If left empty, it rolls effect count as normal.
  * `magicmats`: Spawns a bunch of all the magic crafting materials
  * `magicitemwitheffect <effectID> <itemtype>`: Spawn a magic item with the specified magic effect. (alias: `mieffect`)
    * `<effectID>`: (String) The type of magic effect you want to guarantee
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item.
  * `magicitemlegendary <legendaryID> <itemtype>`: Spawn a specific legendary item. (alias: `milegend`)
	* `<legendaryID>`: (String) The ID of the legendary you want to spawn
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item (optional, will use an item that meets the legendary definition's requirements)
  * `magicitemset <setID>`: Spawn all the items in a legendary item set. (alias: `miset`)
	* `<setID>`: (String) The ID of the legendary set you want to spawn

## Current Known Mod Conflicts
  * **BetterUI** ([Nexus](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/189), [Thunderstore](https://valheim.thunderstore.io/package/Masa/BetterUI/)): You won't be able to see the magic item properties in the tooltip. Go to the BetterUI config and set `showCustomTooltips = false`.

## Known Bugs
  * Gamepad: Still some gamepad issues, especially when using other mods that change the inventory.

**Author's Note:** Older versions of this mod used an image of the Odal rune (ᛟ) to denote set items. It's reconstructed Proto-Germanic meaning is "Heritage" or "Possession" and the author felt like it was the best rune from the Elder Futhark to signify set items. However, the Odal rune with wings or feet was and is used as a Nazi symbol. The author ***UNEQUIVOCALLY CONDEMNS*** Nazis, Nazism, anti-semitism, and white supremacy. Furthermore, those who hold or practice those beliefs are not welcome to use this mod. F\*\*k Nazis.

Commit message:

Epic Loot version 0.9.38:
* Fix enchanting table not displaying correctly the first time it is accessed.
* Fix for Modify health critical effect not applying correctly.
* Changed attack speed to apply as a multiplier rather than additive since animation base speeds is not always 1.
* Reworked Bounty system, upgraded file format. NOT backwards compatible.
    * Reverting from this version your server bounty ledger will not load and all players with unrecorded bounty kills from other players will be lost.
    * Removes bounty data from global keys storage, fully upgrading to the external file save system.
* Added self-destruct to treasure chests that have been found upon reloading them.
* Minimap should now handle removing adventure map pins when abandoned or when resetting via console commands.
* Decreased maximum minimap offset by 20% so that treasure chests and bounties are better spawned within the red map circle.

EpicLoot/README.md, after:

# Epic Loot - Config Patching System and Various Bug Fixes
Author: [RandyKnapp](https://discord.gg/ZNhYeavv3C)
Source: [Github](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/)
Patreon: [patreon.com/randyknapp](https://www.patreon.com/randyknapp)
Discord: [RandyKnapp's Mod Community](https://discord.gg/ZNhYeavv3C)
Patch notes: [Github Patchnotes](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/CHANGELOG.md)

This mod aims to add a loot drop experience to Valheim similar to Diablo or other RPGs. Monsters and chests can now drop Magic, Rare, Epic, or Legendary magic items. Each magic item has a number of magic effects on it, that give bonuses to the item or your character when that magic item is equipped.

The mod is currently in ***Early Access***! That means it's **not done**! Be patient as the author adds new features, fixes bugs, and finishes things up. If you want to help, please provide feedback on the [Nexus mod page](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/387) or on the [github](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/tree/main/EpicLoot) for the following:

  * **Bugs** *(check to make sure your bug is new and not already reported)*
  * **Balance Issues** *(drops too strong? Too weak? Ruin the crafting progression?)*
  * **Missing content** *(check the TODO list below to make sure the author isn't already planning to do it)*
  * **Suggestions** for new magic item effects
  * **Suggestions** for something else like UI or art improvements

***EpicLoot works in multiplayer and on dedicated servers!*** The server and all players should have the mod and its dependencies installed.

## Documentation

**Magic Effects:** [Magic Effects Wiki](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/wiki/Magic-Effects)
**Loot Drops:** [info.md](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/blob/main/EpicLoot/info.md)
**Patching System:** [Config Patching](https://github.com/RandyKnapp/ValheimMods/wiki/Config-Patching)

## Credits
Epic Loot Team Members:
  * [Vapok](https://github.com/Vapok) - Joined in Dec 2022, made hundreds of changes and bugfixes since.
  * [OrianaVenture](https://github.com/OrianaVenture) - Joined in Dec 2023, helping with maintenance and improvements.

Contibutions from the following modders were invaluable and appreciated: 
  * [blaxxun (CLLC)](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/495) - bugfixes, config sync, various magic item effects
  * [M3TO](https://github.com/M3TO) - bugfixes
  * [jsza](https://github.com/jsza) - bugfixes
  * [maxrd2](https://github.com/maxrd2) - bugfixes
  * [nanonull](https://github.com/nanonull) - bugfixes, lifesteal
  * [xPucTu4](https://github.com/xPucTu4) - bugfixes
  * LitanyOfFire - legendary definitions
  * [Digitalroot](https://github.com/Digitalroot) - Help with testing

## Installation
Copy the contents of "files" to a new folder called "EpicLoot" in your BepInEx/plugins directory (on both clients and dedicated servers).

## Cheats

Enter these into the console (F5) after using `devcommands`:

  * `magicitem <rarity> <itemtype> <amount>`: Roll a random magic item using the specified values. (alias: `mi`)
    * `<rarity>`: (String) One of: magic, rare, epic, legendary, random. If left empty, uses random.
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item. May be "random". If left empty, uses random.
	* `<amount>`: (Int) The number of magic items to roll. If the other values are set to random, rerolls that random item each time. If left empty, uses 1.
	* `<effectcount>`: (Int) The number of magic effects to roll on each item. If left empty, it rolls effect count as normal.
  * `magicmats`: Spawns a bunch of all the magic crafting materials
  * `magicitemwitheffect <effectID> <itemtype>`: Spawn a magic item with the specified magic effect. (alias: `mieffect`)
    * `<effectID>`: (String) The type of magic effect you want to guarantee
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item.
  * `magicitemlegendary <legendaryID> <itemtype>`: Spawn a specific legendary item. (alias: `milegend`)
	* `<legendaryID>`: (String) The ID of the legendary you want to spawn
	* `<itemtype>`: (String) The internal ID of an item (optional, will use an item that meets the legendary definition's requirements)
  * `magicitemset <setID>`: Spawn all the items in a legendary item set. (alias: `miset`)
	* `<setID>`: (String) The ID of the legendary set you want to spawn

## Current Known Mod Conflicts
  * **BetterUI** ([Nexus](https://www.nexusmods.com/valheim/mods/189), [Thunderstore](https://valheim.thunderstore.io/package/Masa/BetterUI/)): You won't be able to see the magic item properties in the tooltip. Go to the BetterUI config and set `showCustomTooltips = false`.

## Known Bugs
  * Gamepad: Still some gamepad issues, especially when using other mods that change the inventory.

**Author's Note:** Older versions of this mod used an image of the Odal rune (ᛟ) to denote set items. It's reconstructed Proto-Germanic meaning is "Heritage" or "Possession" and the author felt like it was the best rune from the Elder Futhark to signify set items. However, the Odal rune with wings or feet was and is used as a Nazi symbol. The author ***UNEQUIVOCALLY CONDEMNS*** Nazis, Nazism, anti-semitism, and white supremacy. Furthermore, those who hold or practice those beliefs are not welcome to use this mod. F\*\*k Nazis.
